CNV#50738: Doc: Update downstream doc Delete Protection for VMs (#90981)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-removing-vm-delete-protection.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/managing-vms/virt-enabling-disabling-vm-delete-protection.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-removing-vm-delete-protection{context}"]

= Removing the virtual machine delete protection option

When you enable delete protection on a VM (virtual machine), you ensure that the VM cannot be inadvertently deleted.  You can also choose to disable the protection for a VM.

As a cluster administrator, you can choose not to offer the VM delete protection option. VMs with delete protection enabled retain that setting; for any new VMs that are created, the option is not available.

.Prerequisites

* You must have cluster administrator privileges.

.Procedure

. Create a YAML file as shown in the following example:
+
.Example configuration file
[source,yaml]

> ----

Reviewer: When I lint this YAML file, I get the following error:

Missing closing "quote at line 17, column 170
Implicit keys need to be on a single line at line 18, column 5

Looks like it could use a check-over.

> ----

Author: Checking again with Javier. The YAML file had an issue earlier,  and Javier provide a new file. Not sure what the issue is now.

apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1
kind: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: "disable-vm-delete-protection"
spec:
  failurePolicy: Fail
  matchConstraints:
	resourceRules:
	- apiGroups:   ["kubevirt.io"]
  	apiVersions: ["*"]
  	operations:  ["UPDATE", "CREATE"]
  	resources:   ["virtualmachines"]
  variables:
	- expression: string('kubevirt.io/vm-delete-protection')
  	name: vmDeleteProtectionLabel
  validations:
	- expression: "!has(object.metadata.labels) || !object.metadata.labels.exists(label, label == variables.vmDeleteProtectionLabel) || has(oldObject.metadata.labels) &&
    oldObject.metadata.labels.exists(label, label == variables.vmDeleteProtectionLabel)"
  	message: "Virtual Machine delete protection feature is disabled"
----

> apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1

Author: CNV docs use k8s all over the place, so no change made here.

> apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1

Reviewer: Hmm, @aireilly is that a new bug in CI? I've never seen this pop up as an error in the `apiVersion` field before.

> apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1

Reviewer 2: Fixed this in https://github.com/redhat-documentation/vale-at-red-hat/pull/933/files

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/managing-vms/virt-enabling-disabling-vm-delete-protection.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-removing-vm-delete-protection_{context}"]

= Removing the virtual machine delete protection option

> When you enable delete protection on a VM (virtual machine), you ensure that the VM cannot be inadvertently deleted. You can also choose to disable the protection for a VM.

Reviewer 3: I think we usually want to show the other way around

```suggestion
When you enable delete protection on a virtual machine (VM), you ensure that the VM cannot be inadvertently deleted. You can also choose to disable the protection for a VM.
```

> As a cluster administrator, you can choose not to make the VM delete protection option available. VMs with delete protection already enabled retain that setting; for any new VMs that are created, enabling the option is not allowed.

Reviewer 3: "choose not to make" sounds a little wordy. Maybe something like this?

Also a suggestion for the second sentence.

```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, you can remove the VM delete protection option completely. VMs with delete protection already enabled retain that setting; any new VMs that are created do not have delete protection as an option.
```

Reviewer: @aspauldi Looks like this comment was missed.

> You configure making the option unavailable by using two YAML files, one for establishing a validation admission policy for the cluster and the other for creating the binding necessary to use the policy in the cluster.

Reviewer 3: I don't think calling out that it is two YAML files is important. I'd focus on the actions. Maybe:

```suggestion
You can remove the delete protection option by establishing a validation admission policy for the cluster and then creating the necessary binding to use the policy in the cluster.
```

kind: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: "disable-vm-delete-protection"
spec:
  failurePolicy: Fail
  matchConstraints:
    resourceRules:
    - apiGroups:   ["kubevirt.io"]
      apiVersions: ["*"]
      operations:  ["UPDATE", "CREATE"]
      resources:   ["virtualmachines"]
  variables:
    - expression: string('kubevirt.io/vm-delete-protection')
      name: vmDeleteProtectionLabel
  validations:
  - expression: "!has(object.metadata.labels) || !object.metadata.labels.exists(label, label == variables.vmDeleteProtectionLabel) || has(oldObject.metadata.labels) && \
    oldObject.metadata.labels.exists(label, label == variables.vmDeleteProtectionLabel)"
    message: "Virtual Machine delete protection feature is disabled"
----

. Create a YAML file for the validation admission policy binding, as shown in the following example:
+
.Example validation admission policy binding file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1
kind: ValidatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
metadata:
  name: "disable-vm-delete-protection-binding"
spec:
  policyName: "disable-vm-delete-protection"
  validationActions: [Deny]
  matchResources:
----

> 

Reviewer 3: This procedure only creates the YAML files - it doesn't actually apply them to the cluster. I'd recommend adding two more steps for applying them.

Here's an example of another procedure that does this: https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html-single/security_and_compliance/index#installing-nbde-tang-server-operator-using-cli_installing-nbde-tang-server-operator

Author: @jcanocan, the documentation peer reviewer Andrea Hoffer recommended adding two steps to this procedure. Can you please take a look and see if what I have added is correct? Thanks!

Reviewer 4: @aspauldi Sure, I will review again. But I have a quick question:
When enabling vm-delete-protection, we patch the VM with a label like this:
-- enable labels
$ oc patch vm <vm_name> --type merge -p '{"metadata":{"labels":{"kubevirt.io/vm-delete-protection":"True"}}}' -n <namespace>

To disable it, there can be two approaches:
--Set the label value to "False"
$ oc patch vm <vm_name> --type merge -p '{"metadata":{"labels":{"kubevirt.io/vm-delete-protection":"False"}}}' -n <namespace>

-Remove the label entirely
$ oc patch vm <vm_name> --type json -p '[{"op": "remove", "path": "/metadata/labels/kubevirt.io~1vm-delete-protection"}]' -n <namespace>

Should we treat disabling (setting to "False") and removing the label as two different cases? Technically, both result in the same outcomethe protection is no longer enforced. But from a documentation or behavior clarity perspective, does it make sense to distinguish between them?

Reviewer 5: @bergerhoffer's suggestion sounds fine to me! Great idea.
@geetikakay's suggestion makes sense. However, I have chosen the approach of removing the label to keep the final yaml manifest as sort as possible. I tend to agree with @aspauldi. Thanks for the suggestion, nevertheless.

Reviewer: Looks like this was done, as I see an `oc apply` here. Is this resolved?

Author: Yes, the steps were added.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/managing-vms/virt-enabling-disabling-vm-delete-protection.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-removing-vm-delete-protection_{context}"]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> = Removing the virtual machine delete protection option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Removing the VM delete protection option
```
